# About

Please note, only those functions that have been assigned have been developed, otherwise, it would not be following the assigned task(s). The extra functions as well as the improvements to a code have been listed under the "Improvements for the future release" section. Furthermore, we were asked to list the characters, while instead, we had to list the actors (this error has been confirmed via e-mail).

This is a tutorial on how to run this repository, assuming a blank copy of Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS.

The level of this document is intermediate for any Linux user.

Please choose the steps that you need, should you like to speed-up the setup process.

Technology stack is: MySQL (Maria fork) for database, Spring-Boot for the backend, and React.js for the front-end service.

Everything will be done with the Chrome browser given the CORS plugin that works out-of-box.

## Main Setup
### Lamp stack with phpmyadmin (admin/admin has all SQL privileges)

$ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade

$ sudo apt install apache2

$ sudo apt install mariadb-server mariadb-client

$ sudo apt install php php-common php-mysql php-gd php-cli 

$ sudo apt install phpmyadmin

$ sudo systemctl restart apache2

$ sudo mysql -u root -p


MariaDB [(none)]> CREATE USER 'admin'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'admin';

MariaDB [(none)]> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'admin'@'localhost' WITH GRANT OPTION;

MariaDB [(none)]> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;

## Database Setup
## Spring Boot Setup and Run
mvn clean install
mvn spring-boot:run

## React Setup and Run

## Additional tools
CORS plugin for Chrome

# General Overview of the Database Tables
No extra data or columns were entered. All tables are in NF1 given the simplicity of a task that we are performing. Furthermore, there is no need for any further normalization since it would simply complicate the queries and slow-down the processing as well as the production. Also, it is worth mentioning that all the id-s are autoincremented and timestamps generated by the SQL as UTC Linux Timestamp rather than having to pass this data from the front or the backend (and cause potential issues that can arise from the timezones, date-formats, etc).

There are 3 tables. One table (films) represents the scraped data, other (queries) represents the actions the user performed, and third table (favourites) represents the saved favourite films that user chose from the UI.

Instead of constantly connecting to an API and potentially abusing the calls, we are scraping all the data that we need, and if we need it; except the images that would have been kept in a BLOB (but weren't only to keep the production simpler). This way, we are calling the APIs only once. The cons of this approach is that having a dynamic database with an API would require a constant updating and/or a very frequent API use and a communication with our server(s). The reason for choosing to scrape and organize the database only once is because it reduces the complications easily caused by the improper language practices Javascript is known for.

Each time we sort/toggle the order of the films, the request is recored in the history. Furthermore, we also record user selecting their favourite film as an action as well as the favourite film to be entered in a database.

In order to get as much data as we can, we are not updating the favourite film, but keeping a track of the whole history. The last film can be always obtained by getting an ascending order of an IP address according to a table id, and limiting the result to 1. This, however, has not been implemented since the specifications did not ask us to do it.


# General Overview of the Spring Boot Functions
# General Overview of the React.js Functions

# Improvements for the future release
